The goal of this class is to understand
digital marketing from an
integral perspective, to
understand how all the pieces
fit.
By the way, I advance you that
there will be concepts that come
out in today’s class that you may
not know, but that we will
develop in the next classes.
Today, what we’re going to
do is share with you a model we’
ve created, a model that allows
us to create a marketing
plan or that allows us to
manage a company’s digital marketing.
This model is made up of four
factors that we have on screen.
We start with the funnel or customer
journey.
We will set goals for each of
the stages of the funnel, in addition
we will identify which are the
tools or the appropriate channels
to those goals and finally
what we have to do is to
have very clear what are
all the metrics along
the funnel to be able
to permanently optimize them.
Well, let us start.
The first of the aspects, the first
of the blocks from which everything
is born, is the customer.
We always say that the most important
competition for any marketing
expert is to understand the
customer well, systematically
trying to understand
what is what moves the customer.
In this particular case, in
digital marketing, what we have to
do is understand very well what
are the phases or stages through which
a customer goes through in the
process of buying.
Here are some models that give names
to these stages.
For example, this is the most known.
Knowledge, consideration, evaluation,
purchase, recommendation
Well, I think it helps you understand
a little about what we’re talking
about, but you don’t have to memorize it.
What you have to do is draw or
identify what the specific
steps are for your case.
Imagine that we have an e-
commerce of glasses, of sunglasses,
for example.
What would those stages be within
the funnel?
Well, the first thing is
that we impact our target
audience through many
channels, for example, through
social media ads.
And then we get a percentage
of those people visit
our website.
And some do it is to browse the
website and enter the detail
of some of the glasses.
Compare with other models, for example.
And a percentage of those what
they do is add it to the shopping
cart and some end up buying.
It is important that you identify what
the phases are and it is vital
that you understand in each of the
phases what the customer wants, what
is what concerns him, how he
acts, etc.
There are many pseudo-experts
in marketing, digital marketing who
are experts in some of the channels,
etc., who are experts equally in
analytics, but do not understand
the customer.
And since they have not made the effort
to understand the customer, to know
what moves them, the results are
half as always.
If you really know your customer
well, if you know what moves them,
everything else will be very easy
for you.
You are sure to sell a lot, you
are sure to earn a lot of money.
Well, what we’re going to do is
structure the entire plan from
those stages, the next
thing we have to do is define
very clear goals or strategies
for each of those stages.
And in digital marketing the reality
is that we can define common
goals that apply to almost
every funnel.
You will understand well.
At the top of the funnel, what we
always have to do all the
companies in the world is to
attract visitors or attract
for example facilities in our app.
It is to put gasoline in the
top of the funnel.
Later on, we have to get
those visits to become customers.
Then what we have to do is that
those customers who have already
bought us or buy us more,
products of more value, or buy
us more recurrently and get
to have loyal customers.
And finally we incorporate an additional
phase in the funnel, in the
lower, expansive part.
Why is?
Because we have to get our
clients recommend us to
become promoters, prescribers,
etc.
This will create additional business.
Well, this second section, this
second factor that are the objectives
is very important to have very
clear and manage very clearly the
different objectives by assigning
different responsible within
the organization, measuring
it with metrics or with
specific indicators,
using appropriate tools, etc.
There are many companies that have a
mess in this, that have not defined
the plan so and in the end what
they have is different agent
pursuing in many cases
different goals.
Well, we really recommend
that you identify what all
the stages within the funnel
are and define the very clear
goals for each of those stages.
When we have the tools,
the channels, the tactics,
whatever, as you want
to call it, that allow us
to those goals.
And what are they?
They are very many.
So what we have to do is in
the next classes you know them.
What are the tools or channels
to attract visitors, to convert
visitors into customers, etc.
You have to know them all, understand
them and know what their pros, their
disadvantages, etc. are.
Now, let’s go to the last factor,
and that is optimization.
Here I want to make an incisive.
If you go to books or the orthodox
theory of digital marketing
or marketing plans in general, you
are sure that what they propose
is that you define a number of
goals or quantitative goals.
Imagine increasing the conversion
ratio over the ID from 10 to 15%.
Well, I tell you that it is
not true, that it is not
how we act companies.
It is not so.
What we do companies are measure
everything we can and try to
optimize permanently.
That is, it is not that we want to go from
12 to 15 percent and this year we mark
ourselves that goal, no.
What we do is permanently that
12 and try to be 13, that is 14,
that is 15, and when it is 15,
we want to be 16.
What is the key here?
The key is to identify which
are all the metrics we’re going
to measure.
We have proposed you, we have
classified the metrics in three blocks.
On the one hand, the indicators,
which are, look at, at the top
of the funnel are basically
visits or facilities, for example.
Then we will do a deeper detail,
for example, we can sort the
visits according to the different
origins of those that come, whether
we have paid for them or
not, etc., we will see.
But the main indicator at this
level are visits and we are going
down and we have leads, which
do not always apply, but in many
cases we have the indicator of
leads.
Below what we’re going to measure is,
well, because the new customers
we capture or the operations
that are generated, the sales,
the number of sales, we continue
to drop and we can measure the
number of recurring customers
we have or the recurrence the
times that each customer buys, etc.
And an absolutely vital perspective
are conversion ratios.
As we go down the funnel,
as we go down from visits,
leads, customers, etc., we
have to be constantly
measuring what conversion
rates are for each of the
levels and why this is
very important.
First, because these conversion
ratios are representative of
how we are doing things.
If we improve, that percentage
will increase.
If we improve messages on the
website, we will increase
the percentage of people who leave
us the data on the website,
for example.
Or if we improve the experience of
using it on the web, we will that
there are more people to buy.
We have to be obsessed with those
conversion ratios that have
a direct impact on what customers
will cost us, the number
of customers we will capture,
etc.
And it’s also very easy to
manage the ratio, because what
we have to do is permanently
optimize it.
Instead, absolute values are harder
to manage, because we don’t
have 100 leads now and we’ll
have 120 tomorrow.
Well, it’s okay, but the important
thing is to know the percentage
of visits that become leads
and to permanently monitor
that data.
The last one
is the most economic.
It is to allocate costs or revenue
to each of the stages.
What are the costs?
Because we can calculate the total
investment, we can calculate what
it costs us, because what visits
cost us, what leads cost us,
what each of the purchases
cost us and we also have to
be able to measure what are
the revenues that each of
the customers is generating
to us, etc.
Let us take a look.
Four factors within the model.
The first of them is that you
understand the customer very well
and understand the phases through
which it goes and what moves him.
This is the most important of all.
As we said in the funnel,
then we go to the goals.
Clear goals for each of the
stages of the funnel.
We will then put in place
the tools, the channels
to those goals and
finally we have to permanently
monitor the
main metrics along
the entire funnel.
With what purpose?
The goal is to always optimize.
Because if you are not able to measure
it you will not be able to manage
it and for this we will need to
understand analytics, have
systems that allow us to measure, etc.
We will see it in the next classes.